content/posts/getting-started-with-hugo-windows.md, before:

+++
title = "Getting Started With Hugo in Windows and Free Hosting with Netlify"
date = "2020-11-12T15:13:07+05:30"
author = "KD"
authorTwitter = "kdpuvvadi" #do not include @
cover = ""
tags = ["", ""]
keywords = ["", ""]
description = "Step by step guide to setup Hugo blog in windows and host with Netlify for Free"
showFullContent = false
+++

This is a guide for windows. There are multiple ways to install `Hugo` in a Windows PC. I prefer [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/). To install, Open *PowerShell* or *Command prompt*  with elevated privileges. Copy the following and paste in the 

````shell
choco install hugo
````
To check whether the installation is successful, 
````shell
hugo version
````
it should output something like this,
````shell
> hugo version
Hugo Static Site Generator v0.78.1/extended windows/amd64 BuildDate: unknown
````
if you are planning to use Sass for CSS, `hugo-extended` is needed. To install hugo-extended
````shell
choco install hugo-extended
````

If you prefer installing with Windows installation binaries, go to [Hugo GitHub](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/releases) and grab the latest version. 

Now to creating Hugo site. To create use
````shell
hugo new site new-hugo-site
````
It will create a directory *new-hugo-site* (replace it with your preference) and populates with all necessary files. 
Output should look something like this
````shell
>hugo new site new-hugo-site
Congratulations! Your new Hugo site is created in %user%\new-hugo-site.

Just a few more steps and you're ready to go:

1. Download a theme into the same-named folder.
   Choose a theme from https://themes.gohugo.io/ or
   create your own with the "hugo new theme <THEMENAME>" command.
2. Perhaps you want to add some content. You can add single files
   with "hugo new <SECTIONNAME>\<FILENAME>.<FORMAT>".
3. Start the built-in live server via "hugo server".

Visit https://gohugo.io/ for quickstart guide and full documentation.

````
Now, we need theme, at least barebones one to get started. In the quick start guide of Hugo, it suggests use of Ananke. Go to [Ananke GitHub](https://github.com/theNewDynamic/gohugo-theme-ananke). Download the Repo and extract the archive into *new-hugo-site/themes*. To enable the theme add the following line to the `config.toml`. 
````toml
theme = "ananke"
````
Essentially, Hugo site is ready. To generate static site 
````shell 
hugo serve -D
```` 
`D` flag is for viewing draft posts. 
To add blog posts to hugo
````shell
hugo new posts/hello-world.md
````
Hugo now creates new file names hello-world.me. it should look something like this
````toml
---
title: "Hello World"
date: 2020-11-12T19:23:10+05:30
draft: true
---
````
To publish the post just remove or comment the draft tag. 
Hugo uses markdown to generate posts. All you've to do is start typing. 

![Hugo site with Ananke theme](/image/hugo-ananke-new-site.jpg)

Hugo can be hosted with [Nelify](https://netlify.com) for free. To proceed with that create a repo on GitHub or BitBucket. 
````shell 
git init
git remote add origin git@github.com:kdpuvvadi/new-hugo-site.git
git branch -M main
git add . 
git commit -m "my first commit"
git push -u origin master
````
Repo is ready. Now open [Nelify](https://netlify.com) and create an account. After completion of signup, connect your GitHub account to Netlify. 

![](/image/netlify-new-site.jpg)

Now, connect GitHub and Select your Repo and keep the remaining default. 

![](/image/deploy-netlify-settings.jpg)

Click on `Deploy Site`. Now, Netlify grabs the repo's Master branch and builds the Site. Keep an Eye on build log. If the build fail, check what's went wrong. For me i've to change the build command to following 
````shell
hugo --gc --minify
````
And added the following Environment Variable 
````toml
HUGO_VERSION 0.77.0
````
To added Env variables, go to ***Site settings > Build & Deploy > Environment***. Set the Key *HUGO_VERSION* and it's value to *0.77.0*

You can visit published site [HERE](https://my-new-hugo-site.netlify.app)

Commit message:

added keywords to free hosting and added cover cover

content/posts/getting-started-with-hugo-windows.md, after:

+++
title = "Getting Started With Hugo in Windows and Free Hosting with Netlify"
date = "2020-11-12T15:13:07+05:30"
author = "KD"
authorTwitter = "kdpuvvadi" #do not include @
cover = "/image/free-website-hugo-netlify-github.jpg"
tags = ["Hugo", "free website", "GitHub", "Netlify", "static website"]
keywords = ["Tech", "Dev"]
description = "Step by step guide to setup Hugo blog in windows and host with Netlify for Free"
showFullContent = false
+++

This is a guide for windows. There are multiple ways to install `Hugo` in a Windows PC. I prefer [Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/). To install, Open *PowerShell* or *Command prompt*  with elevated privileges. Copy the following and paste in the 

````shell
choco install hugo
````
To check whether the installation is successful, 
````shell
hugo version
````
it should output something like this,
````shell
> hugo version
Hugo Static Site Generator v0.78.1/extended windows/amd64 BuildDate: unknown
````
if you are planning to use Sass for CSS, `hugo-extended` is needed. To install `hugo-extended`
````shell
choco install hugo-extended
````

If you prefer installing with Windows installation binaries, go to [Hugo GitHub](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/releases) and grab the latest version. 

Now to creating Hugo site. To create use
````shell
hugo new site new-hugo-site
````
It will create a directory *new-hugo-site* (replace it with your preference) and populates with all necessary files. 
Output should look something like this
````shell
>hugo new site new-hugo-site
Congratulations! Your new Hugo site is created in %user%\new-hugo-site.

Just a few more steps and you're ready to go:

1. Download a theme into the same-named folder.
   Choose a theme from https://themes.gohugo.io/ or
   create your own with the "hugo new theme <THEMENAME>" command.
2. Perhaps you want to add some content. You can add single files
   with "hugo new <SECTIONNAME>\<FILENAME>.<FORMAT>".
3. Start the built-in live server via "hugo server".

Visit https://gohugo.io/ for quickstart guide and full documentation.

````
Now, we need theme, at least barebones one to get started. In the quick start guide of Hugo, it suggests use of Ananke. Go to [Ananke GitHub](https://github.com/theNewDynamic/gohugo-theme-ananke). Download the Repo and extract the archive into *new-hugo-site/themes*. To enable the theme add the following line to the `config.toml`. 
````toml
theme = "ananke"
````
Essentially, Hugo site is ready. To generate static site 
````shell 
hugo serve -D
```` 
`D` flag is for viewing draft posts. 
To add blog posts to Hugo
````shell
hugo new posts/hello-world.md
````
Hugo now creates new file names hello-world.me. it should look something like this
````toml
---
title: "Hello World"
date: 2020-11-12T19:23:10+05:30
draft: true
---
````
To publish the post just remove or comment the draft tag. 
Hugo uses markdown to generate posts. All you've to do is start typing. 

![Hugo site with Ananke theme](/image/hugo-ananke-new-site.jpg)

Hugo can be hosted with [Nelify](https://netlify.com) for free. To proceed with that create a repo on GitHub or BitBucket. 
````shell 
git init
git remote add origin git@github.com:kdpuvvadi/new-hugo-site.git
git branch -M main
git add . 
git commit -m "my first commit"
git push -u origin master
````
Repo is ready. Now open [Nelify](https://netlify.com) and create an account. After completion of signup, connect your GitHub account to Netlify. 

![](/image/netlify-new-site.jpg)

Now, connect GitHub and Select your Repo and keep the remaining default. 

![](/image/deploy-netlify-settings.jpg)

Click on `Deploy Site`. Now, Netlify grabs the repo's Master branch and builds the Site. Keep an Eye on build log. If the build fail, check what's went wrong. For me I've to change the build command to following 
````shell
hugo --gc --minify
````
And added the following Environment Variable 
````toml
HUGO_VERSION 0.77.0
````
To added Env variables, go to ***Site settings > Build & Deploy > Environment***. Set the Key *HUGO_VERSION* and it's value to *0.77.0*

You can visit published site [HERE](https://my-new-hugo-site.netlify.app)
