content/posts/home-assistant-setup.md, before:

+++
title = "Home Assistant Setup on Raspberry Pi"
date = "2020-11-03T20:09:59+05:30"
author = "KD"
authorTwitter = "kdpuvvadi" #do not include @
cover = ""
tags = ["", ""]
keywords = ["", ""]
description = ""
showFullContent = false
draft = true
+++

I'm loving Home Assistant. If your home has a lot IOT devices or if you want to get start with Home Automation, Home Assistant is best start. For the beginners, it maybe little intimidating but it is well worth the effort. To get started you need following componenets.

#### Required Hardware
    - Raspberry Pi
    - Power Supply
    - MicroSD card (Atleast 32GB)
    - SDCard Reader

#### Download required Tools
First Download Pi Home Assistant Image [Here](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/installation/ "Download HA images"). I'm using Raspberry Pi 3 B+ & I might want to use GPIO ports, so i've selected 32 bit image. Download balenaEtcher [Here](https://www.balena.io/etcher "Download balenaEtcher") for flashing the image to SDCard. After Downloading the Pi Image, extract the image with any unzip utility. I'm using [7-Zip](https://www.7-zip.org/, "Download 7-Zip"). 

#### Flashing the image
Now, install and open the **balenaEtcher**, Select Extracted image, select the SDCard you've connected to the PC and click on **Flash**. If asked for elevated permissions, click ***YES***

![](/image/balenoEtcher_Flashing.jpg)

##### Flashing
![](/image/balanaetcher_flashing.png)

##### Flashing Done
![](/image/balenaEtcher_done.png)

Once it's completed flashing the image, Eject the SDCard and insert it to Raspberry Pi 3. Now, we need a way to connect our pi to network. 

#### Network Configaration
First Create a Directory **CONFIG** and then **netowrk**. Now, create a file name **my-network** without any extension.Based the network type you prefere copy the following content and add that to the file you just created.

##### Wired Ethernet connection with DHCP Enable
{{< code language="markdown" title="Wired DHCP" id="1" expand="Show" collapse="Hide" >}}

    [connection]
    id=my-network
    uuid=d55162b4-6152-4310-9312-8f4c54d86afa
    type=802-3-ethernet

    [ipv4]
    method=auto

    [ipv6]
    addr-gen-mode=stable-privacy
    method=auto

{{< /code >}}

##### Wired Ethernet connection with static IP

{{< code language="markdown" title="Wired Static IP" id="2" expand="Show" collapse="Hide" >}}

    [connection]
    id=my-network
    uuid=d55162b4-6152-4310-9312-8f4c54d86afa
    type=802-3-ethernet

    [ipv4]
    method=manual
    address=192.168.0.123/24;192.168.0.1
    dns=1.1.1.1;8.8.8.8;

{{< /code >}}

##### Wi-Fi with DHCP
{{< code language="markdown" title="Wireless DHCP" id="3" expand="Show" collapse="Hide" >}}
    [connection]
    id=my-network
    uuid=72111c67-4a5d-4d5c-925e-f8ee26efb3c3
    type=802-11-wireless

    [802-11-wireless]
    mode=infrastructure
    ssid=MY_SSID
    # Uncomment below if your SSID is not broadcasted
    #hidden=true

    [802-11-wireless-security]
    auth-alg=open
    key-mgmt=wpa-psk
    psk=wi_fi_password

    [ipv4]
    method=auto

    [ipv6]
    addr-gen-mode=stable-privacy
    method=auto

{{< /code >}}


##### Wi-Fi with Static IP
{{< code language="markdown" title="Wireless with static IP" id="4" expand="Show" collapse="Hide" >}}
    [connection]
    id=my-network
    uuid=72111c67-4a5d-4d5c-925e-f8ee26efb3c3
    type=802-11-wireless

    [802-11-wireless]
    mode=infrastructure
    ssid=MY_SSID
    # Uncomment below if your SSID is not broadcasted
    #hidden=true

    [802-11-wireless-security]
    auth-alg=open
    key-mgmt=wpa-psk
    psk=wi_fi_password

    [ipv4]
    method=manual
    address=192.168.0.231/24;192.168.0.1
    dns=1.1.1.1;8.8.8.8;
{{< /code >}}

***Note*** :- Replace UUID with newly generated uuid, you can generate one for free [here](https://www.uuidgenerator.net/ "uuid generated").
***Note*** :- Replace SSID and psk with your wire access point name, password and static IP to desired one based on your network setup.

#### Setup

Open your browser of choice and enter the IP address of the Pi. If everything went well and device connected to the network, you should see the following screen. 

![](/image/hass_preparing.jpg)

The process may take some time, Take a coffe brake. Once the process is completed, you should see account creation screen.

![](/image/hass_account.png)

Name your Home Assitant setup, setup Home locatation and Select the units of choice in the following screen. 

![](/image/hass_map_units_name.png)

If everything went good so far, you should Home Assitant Dashboard *aka* ***lovelace***. 

#### ESP8266 Setup

Our goal today is connecting NodeMCU to HomeAssitant. To do that we need to install small addon ESPHome from Addon store on Home Assitant. To install ESPHome Addon, go to * Superviser > Add-on Sore * and search for ESPHome. Click on the Add-on and click install.

Commit message:

finished and publishing the hass setup post

content/posts/home-assistant-setup.md, after:

+++
title = "Home Assistant Setup on Raspberry Pi"
date = "2020-11-03T20:09:59+05:30"
author = "KD"
authorTwitter = "kdpuvvadi" #do not include @
cover = ""
tags = ["", ""]
keywords = ["", ""]
description = ""
showFullContent = false
+++

I'm loving Home Assistant. If your home has a lot IOT devices or if you want to get start with Home Automation, Home Assistant is best start. For the beginners, it maybe little intimidating but it is well worth the effort. To get started you need following componenets.

#### Required Hardware
    - Raspberry Pi
    - Power Supply
    - MicroSD card (Atleast 32GB)
    - SDCard Reader

#### Download required Tools
First Download Pi Home Assistant Image [Here](https://www.home-assistant.io/hassio/installation/ "Download HA images"). I'm using Raspberry Pi 3 B+ & I might want to use GPIO ports, so i've selected 32 bit image. Download balenaEtcher [Here](https://www.balena.io/etcher "Download balenaEtcher") for flashing the image to SDCard. After Downloading the Pi Image, extract the image with any unzip utility. I'm using [7-Zip](https://www.7-zip.org/, "Download 7-Zip"). 

#### Flashing the image
Now, install and open the **balenaEtcher**, Select Extracted image, select the SDCard you've connected to the PC and click on **Flash**. If asked for elevated permissions, click ***YES***

![](/image/balenoEtcher_Flashing.jpg)

##### Flashing
![](/image/balanaetcher_flashing.png)

##### Flashing Done
![](/image/balenaEtcher_done.png)

Once it's completed flashing the image, Eject the SDCard and insert it to Raspberry Pi 3. Now, we need a way to connect our pi to network. 

#### Network Configaration
First Create a Directory **CONFIG** and then **netowrk**. Now, create a file name **my-network** without any extension.Based the network type you prefere copy the following content and add that to the file you just created.

##### Wired Ethernet connection with DHCP Enable
{{< code language="markdown" title="Wired DHCP" id="1" expand="Show" collapse="Hide" >}}

    [connection]
    id=my-network
    uuid=d55162b4-6152-4310-9312-8f4c54d86afa
    type=802-3-ethernet

    [ipv4]
    method=auto

    [ipv6]
    addr-gen-mode=stable-privacy
    method=auto

{{< /code >}}

##### Wired Ethernet connection with static IP

{{< code language="markdown" title="Wired Static IP" id="2" expand="Show" collapse="Hide" >}}

    [connection]
    id=my-network
    uuid=d55162b4-6152-4310-9312-8f4c54d86afa
    type=802-3-ethernet

    [ipv4]
    method=manual
    address=192.168.0.123/24;192.168.0.1
    dns=1.1.1.1;8.8.8.8;

{{< /code >}}

##### Wi-Fi with DHCP
{{< code language="markdown" title="Wireless DHCP" id="3" expand="Show" collapse="Hide" >}}
    [connection]
    id=my-network
    uuid=72111c67-4a5d-4d5c-925e-f8ee26efb3c3
    type=802-11-wireless

    [802-11-wireless]
    mode=infrastructure
    ssid=MY_SSID
    # Uncomment below if your SSID is not broadcasted
    #hidden=true

    [802-11-wireless-security]
    auth-alg=open
    key-mgmt=wpa-psk
    psk=wi_fi_password

    [ipv4]
    method=auto

    [ipv6]
    addr-gen-mode=stable-privacy
    method=auto

{{< /code >}}


##### Wi-Fi with Static IP
{{< code language="markdown" title="Wireless with static IP" id="4" expand="Show" collapse="Hide" >}}
    [connection]
    id=my-network
    uuid=72111c67-4a5d-4d5c-925e-f8ee26efb3c3
    type=802-11-wireless

    [802-11-wireless]
    mode=infrastructure
    ssid=MY_SSID
    # Uncomment below if your SSID is not broadcasted
    #hidden=true

    [802-11-wireless-security]
    auth-alg=open
    key-mgmt=wpa-psk
    psk=wi_fi_password

    [ipv4]
    method=manual
    address=192.168.0.231/24;192.168.0.1
    dns=1.1.1.1;8.8.8.8;
{{< /code >}}

***Note*** :- Replace UUID with newly generated uuid, you can generate one for free [here](https://www.uuidgenerator.net/ "uuid generated").
***Note*** :- Replace SSID and psk with your wire access point name, password and static IP to desired one based on your network setup.

#### Conclusion

I like to think Home Assistant a Swiff Army Knigh. Possibilities are endless. If properly configured, you can control all your smart home from anywhare in the world with touch of the button securly. In comming days i'll write about intigrating different IOT and goodies to Hass. Keep watching this space. [Au revoir](#conclusion)
